=head1 NAME

pg_dumpbinary - Dump a PostgreSQL database using binary format for data.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Program used to dump a PostgreSQL database with data dumped in binary
format. The resulting dumps can be restored using pg_restorebinary.

usage: pg_dumpbinary -d dbname [options] backup_name

    backup_name   output directory where dump will be saved. Default
                  directory name is binary_bkup_YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS
		  when no output directory is provided.
options:

  -A, --attach SNAPSHOT        attach pg_dumpbinary to an existing snapshot
                               instead of creating a dedicated one.
  -C, --compress-level 0-9     speed of the gzip compression using the specified
                               digit, between 1 and 9, default to 6. Setting it
                               to 0 disable the compression.
  -d, --database DBNAME        database to dump
  -h, --host HOSTNAME          database server host or socket directory
  -j, --job NUM                use this many parallel jobs to dump
  -n, --schema SCHEMA          dump the named schema(s) only
  -N, --exclude-schema SCHEMA  do NOT dump the named schema(s)
  -p, --port PORT              database server port number, default: 5432
  -s, --snapshot-file FILE     change the path to the snapshot information file
                               used by multiprocess. Default: /tmp/snapshot_info
  -t, --table TABLE            dump named relation
  -T, --exclude-table TABLE    do NOT dump the named table
  -u, --user NAME              connect as specified database user
  -v, --version                show program version
  -V, --verbose                display the list of tables parts of the dump.
  --help                       show usage
  --load-via-partition-root    dump data through partitioned table only, make
                               the COPY statements target the root of the
			       partitioning hierarchy rather than the partition
  --with-child                 when -t or -T option are used, include or exclude
                               child and partition tables. pg_dump will be used
			       instead with options --table-and-children or
			       --exclude-table-and-children (PostgreSQL >= 16).

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pg_dumpbinary is a tool used to dump a PostgreSQL database in binary
format. With pg_dump you can dump a database in three different format:
plain (plain-text SQL), directory (directory-format archive) and custom
(custom-format archive). You must use this command unless you know what
you are doing. pg_dumpbinary can help in some situation:

  - you have bytea that can not be exported by pg_dump because the
    total size of the escape/hex output exceed 1Gb.
  - you have custom type based on bytea that stores char(0) but the
    user visible type is char/varchar/text which truncate data after
    the '\0'. In this case pg_dump will export the data in the visible
    type which will result in data lost.
  - any other case where binary format can  be useful.

If you are in this case pg_dumpbinary will help you by dumping the
PostgreSQL database in binary format.

The program creates a directory with the name given as parameter for
the backup then it dump pre-data and post-data section using pg_dump
in this directory.

pg_dumpbinary collect the list of schemas and tables from the pre-data
and execute through the psql command the SQL COPY orders to dump all
data in binary format from all tables. The COPY statement looks like:

    COPY my_table TO stdout WITH (FORMAT binary);

All data are exported into a file per table named:

    data-schema.table.bin.gz

The file is compressed on the fly using gzip.

This backup can be restored using pg_restorebinary program.

=head1 CONSISTENT BACKUP

pg_dumpbinary creates consistent backups, the database server needs to
support synchronized snapshots, a feature that was introduced in PG 9.2
for primary servers and 10 for standbys. pg_dumpbinary will refuse to
dump database that do not respect these minimum versions.

pg_dumpbinary -j uses multiple database connections; it connects to the
database once with the master process to create a synchronized snapshot
and dump the pre-data section. Once again for each worker job using the
synchronized snapshot.

=head1 PARALLEL PROCESSING

The speed of the dump can be improved by using parallelism during the
export by pg_dumpbinary. Set option -j with the number of simultaneous
process you want to use. The behaviour is like the -j option of pg_dump
in directory format. 

=head1 BINARY FORMAT

pg_dumpbinary stores as binary format all tables data, it is fast but
note that it is less portable across machine architectures and PostgreSQL
versions. The binary format is very data type specific, it is not possible
to import data in columns with a different type.

=head1 AUTHORS

Gilles Darold.

=head1 LICENSE

pg_dumpbinary is free software distributed under the PostgreSQL Licence.

Copyright (c) 2019-2024 LzLabs, GmbH

