=head1 NAME

pg_restorebinary - Restore a dump generated with pg_dumpbinary.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Program used to restore a PostgreSQL binary dump done with pg_dumpbinary.
It can not be used to restore other PostgreSQL dump.

usage: pg_restorebinary [options] [-d dbname | -f outfile.sql] backup_dir

  backup_dir   directory where backup files to restore will be read.
               It must be a directory created by pg_dumpbinary.
options:

  -a, --data-only              restore only the data, no schema.
  -C, --create                 create the database before restoring into it.
  -d, --database DBNAME        database to restore, it must exists.
  -E, --exclude-ext EXTNAME    name of an extension to not restore, it can
                               be used multiple time.
  -f, --file FILENAME          specify output file for generated script. No
                               restore is performed, the resulting DDL and
			       commands are written to the file.
  -h, --host HOSTNAME          database server host or socket directory.
  -i, --info                   print information about the dump and exit.
  -j, --job NUM                use this many parallel jobs to restore.
  -n, --schema SCHEMA          restore the named schema(s) only.
  -N, --exclude-schema SCHEMA  do NOT restore the named schema(s).
  -p, --port PORT              database server port number, default: 5432.
  -t, --table TABLE            restore named relation.
  -T, --exclude-table TABLE    do NOT restore the named table.
  -u, --user NAME              connect as specified database user.
  -v, --version                show program version.
  --help                       show usage.
  --disable-triggers           disable triggers during data restore.
  --truncate                   truncate the table before importing the data.
  --schema-exists              add an IF NOT EXISTS clause to CREATE SCHEMA.
  --dump-create                print to stdout the CREATE and ALTER DATABASE
                               statements.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pg_restorebinary is a tool used to restore a PostgreSQL database dumped
using pg_dumpbinary command in binary format. 

The program read the directory given as parameter for the backup then it
restore pre-data in the database given at -d option. Once it is done it
proceed to data import. All data file are uncompressed on the fly and sent
to a psql command using COPY SQL order like:

    COPY my_table FROM stdin WITH (FORMAT binary);

Then post-data section are imported into the new database.

=head1 BACKUP INFORMATION

pg_restorebinary allow to extract some meta information from a backup generated
by pg_dumpbinary using the -i option.

    perl pg_restorebinary -i t/test_bin_dump
    ; Archive created at 2019-05-25 16:10:09 CEST
    ;     dbname: test_bin_dump_orig
    ;     Dumped from database version: 11.3 (Ubuntu 11.3-1.pgdg18.04+1)
    ;     Number of tables to retore: 4 


=head1 PARALLEL PROCESSING

The speed of the restoration can be improved by using parallelism during
the call to pg_restorebinary. Set option -j with the number of simultaneous
process you want to use. The behaviour is like the -j option of pg_restore.

The parallelism is also used to restore post-data section for indexes and
constraints.

=head1 AUTHORS

Gilles Darold.

=head1 LICENSE

pg_restorebinary is free software distributed under the PostgreSQL Licence.

Copyright (c) 2019-2025 LzLabs, GmbH

